Feat: Enables media queries & mixins overrides (#1917)
vtex/faststore: apps/site/pages/docs/customizing/mixins-breakpoints.mdx

---
title: ' Mixins & Breakpoints'
---

import { Callout, Tab, Tabs } from 'nextra-theme-docs'
import { OverviewSection } from 'site/components/OverviewSection'
import { Input, InputField } from '@faststore/ui'

<header>

# Mixins & Breakpoints

</header>

## Breakpoints

> In order to help our breakpoint customization, we use [Include-Media](https://eduardoboucas.github.io/include-media/#features), a Sass library for writing CSS media queries in an easy and maintainable way, using a natural and simplistic syntax. We use 5 basic breakpoints:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ease our screen breakpoint customization, we're using [Include-Media](https://eduardoboucas.github.io/include-media/#features), a Sass library for writing CSS media queries in an easy and maintainable way, using a natural and simplistic syntax. We've defined the 5 following screen breakpoints:
```

> ```scss copy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```scss
```

$breakpoints: (
  "phone":         320px,
  "phonemid":      375px,
  "tablet":        768px,
  "notebook":      1280px,
  "desktop":       1440px,
);
```

> ### Custom Breakpoints

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customizing Breakpoints
```

> If you want to override these sizing system, just follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to override this sizing system, follow the following steps:
```

> 1. Go to the `/src` folder and create the `styles` folder and inside it. You can run the following command to create them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `src` folder and create the `styles` folder inside it. You can run the following command to create it:
```

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src/styles
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src\styles
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

2. Inside the `styles` folder, create a new file called `custom-mixins.scss`

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src/styles/custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src\styles\custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

3. Copy and paste the following code snippet into the file:

```scss {8} filename="src/styles/custom-mixins.scss" copy

> @import "@faststore/ui/utilities"
> 
> $breakpoints: (
>   "phone":         320px,
>   "phonemid":      375px,
>   "tablet":        768px,
>   "notebook":      1280px,
>   "desktop":       1500px,
> );
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@import "@faststore/ui/utilities"

// Overwrites Breakpoints & Mixins ////////////////////

$breakpoints: (
  "phone":         320px,
  "phonemid":      375px,
  "tablet":        768px,
  "notebook":      1280px,
  "desktop":       1500px,
);
```
```

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">

>   You need to declare all the variants (phone, phonemid, tablet, notebook and desktop).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You need to declare all the variants (phone, phonemid, tablet, notebook and desktop) even when changing only one of the values.
```

</Callout>

> 4. Run `yarn dev` in the terminal to start the development server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run `yarn dev` in the terminal to start the development server. Your should be able to see the changes.
```

> 

Reviewer: We should add something like:

```suggestion
Modifying these breakpoints implies changes to certain global tokens. See [Grid & Layout](/docs/global-tokens/grid-and-layout#breakpoints) for more details.
```

---

## Mixins

> We use the [Sass `@mixin`](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/mixin/) to allow you to define styles that can be re-used throughout your stylesheet. We divide them into these categories:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the [Sass `@mixin`](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/mixin/) to allow you to define styles that can be re-used throughout your application. We divide them into 3 categories: `Global Mixins`, `Layout & Spacing Mixins` and `Focus Ring Mixins`.
```

> <Tabs items={['Global mixins', 'Layout & Spacing Mixins', 'Focus Ring Mixins']}>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Tabs items={['Global Mixins', 'Layout & Spacing Mixins', 'Focus Ring Mixins']}>
```

      max-width: var(--fs-grid-max-width);
      margin-right: auto;
      margin-left: auto;
    }

    @mixin layout-content-full {
      width: 100%;
      max-width: 100%;
    }

    @mixin layout-colored($bkg-color: var(--fs-color-neutral-bkg), $padding-top: var(--fs-spacing-5), $padding-bottom: var(--fs-spacing-7)) {
      padding-top: $padding-top;
      padding-bottom: $padding-bottom;
      background-color: $bkg-color;
    }

    @mixin section-divisor($position: "top", $padding: #{var(--fs-grid-padding)}) {
      @if $position == "top" {
        padding-top: $padding;
        border-top: var(--fs-border-width) solid var(--fs-border-color-light);

        @include media(">=notebook") { padding-top: $padding; }
      }

      @if $position == "bottom" {
        padding-bottom: $padding;
        border-bottom: var(--fs-border-width) solid var(--fs-border-color-light);

        @include media(">=notebook") { padding-bottom: $padding; }
      }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```scss copy
    @mixin input-focus-ring($outline: #{var(--fs-color-focus-ring)}, $border: #{var(--fs-border-color-active)}) {

>       @media not all and (min-resolution: .001dpcm) { // Target only Safari browsers

Reviewer: Actually, I think this is outdated: `Target only safari browser code`. We need to verify.

          &:focus {
            border-color: $border;
            outline: none;
            box-shadow:
              0 0 0 1px var(--fs-color-body-bkg),
              0 0 0 var(--fs-border-width-thickest) $outline,
              inset 0 0 0 var(--fs-border-width) $border;
          }
        }
      }

      &:focus-visible,
      &:hover:focus-visible {
        border-color: $border;
        outline: none;
        box-shadow:
          0 0 0 1px var(--fs-color-body-bkg),
          0 0 0 var(--fs-border-width-thickest) $outline,
          inset 0 0 0 var(--fs-border-width) $border;
      }
    }

    @mixin focus-ring {
      outline: none;
      box-shadow: 0 0 0 1px var(--fs-color-body-bkg), 0 0 0 var(--fs-border-width-thickest) var(--fs-color-focus-ring);
    }

    @mixin focus-ring-visible {
      @media not all and (min-resolution: .001dpcm) { // Target only Safari browsers
        @supports (-webkit-appearance:none) {         // Use `focus` instead of `focus-visible`
          &:focus { @include focus-ring; }            // due to Safari's lack of support
        }
      }
      &:focus-visible { @include focus-ring; }
    }
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

> ### Custom Mixins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Customizing Mixins
```

> The process of overriding those mixins is really similar to the custom breakpoints steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process of overriding those mixins is similar to the customizing breakpoints steps. If you already have a `custom-mixin.scss` file, you can skip to Step 3.
```

> 1. Go to the `/src` folder and create the `styles` folder and inside it. You can run the following command to create them:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the `src` folder and create the `styles` folder inside it. You can run the following command to create it:
```

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src/styles
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src\styles
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

2. Inside the `styles` folder, create a new file called `custom-mixins.scss`

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src/styles/custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src\styles\custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

> 3. Choose the mixin you want to override and add it to the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose the [mixin](#mixins) you want to override and add it to the file:
```

> 3. Choose the mixin you want to override and add it to the file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Choose the [mixin](#mixins) you want to override and add it to the file:

```scss {8} filename="src/styles/custom-mixins.scss" copy
@import "@faststore/ui/utilities"

// Overwrites Breakpoints & Mixins ////////////////////

@mixin input-focus-ring($outline: #{var(--fs-color-focus-ring-danger)}, $border: #{--fs-color-danger-border}) {
  [...]
}

```

> ```diff copy

Reviewer: I think this is a little bit confusing. 
How about first, we show how to add the mixin in this file, and then the "override changes applied"?

```scss
$breakpoints: (
  "phone":         320px,
  "phonemid":      375px,
  "tablet":        768px,
  "notebook":      1280px,
  "desktop":       1440px,
);
```

### Customizing Breakpoints

If you want to override this sizing system, follow the following steps:

1. Go to the `src` folder and create the `styles` folder inside it. You can run the following command to create it:

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src/styles
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src\styles
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

2. Inside the `styles` folder, create a new file called `custom-mixins.scss`

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src/styles/custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src\styles\custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

3. Copy and paste the following code snippet into the file:

> ```scss {8} filename="src/styles/custom-mixins.scss" copy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```scss {10} filename="src/styles/custom-mixins.scss" copy
```

@import "@faststore/ui/utilities"

// Overwrites Breakpoints & Mixins ////////////////////

$breakpoints: (
  "phone":         320px,
  "phonemid":      375px,
  "tablet":        768px,
  "notebook":      1280px,
  "desktop":       1500px,
);
```

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">
  You need to declare all the variants (phone, phonemid, tablet, notebook and desktop) even when changing only one of the values.
</Callout>

4. Run `yarn dev` in the terminal to start the development server. Your should be able to see the changes.

> Modifying these breakpoints implies changes to certain global tokens. See [Grid & Layout](/docs/global-tokens/grid-and-layout#breakpoints) for more details.
> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Modifying these breakpoints implies changes to certain global tokens. See [Grid & Layout](/docs/global-tokens/grid-and-layout#breakpoints) for more details.

---
```

    }
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

### Customizing Mixins

The process of overriding those mixins is similar to the customizing breakpoints steps. If you already have a `custom-mixin.scss` file, you can skip to Step 3.

1. Go to the `src` folder and create the `styles` folder inside it. You can run the following command to create it:

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src/styles
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    mkdir src\styles
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

2. Inside the `styles` folder, create a new file called `custom-mixins.scss`

<Tabs items={['macOS and Linux', 'Windows']}>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src/styles/custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
  <Tab>
    ```bash copy
    touch src\styles\custom-mixins.scss
    ```
  </Tab>
</Tabs>

3. Choose the [mixin](#mixins) you want to override and add it to the file:

```scss {8} filename="src/styles/custom-mixins.scss" copy
@import "@faststore/ui/utilities"

// Overwrites Breakpoints & Mixins ////////////////////

@mixin input-focus-ring($outline: #{var(--fs-color-focus-ring-danger)}, $border: #{--fs-color-danger-border}) {
  [...]
}
```

> 4. Make the changes on the `@mixin` declaration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code will make the following changes on the default `@mixin input-focus-ring`:
```

```diff copy
- @mixin input-focus-ring($outline: #{var(--fs-color-focus-ring)}, $border: #{var(--fs-border-color-active)}) {
+ @mixin input-focus-ring($outline: #{var(--fs-color-focus-ring-danger)}, $border: #{--fs-color-danger-border}) {
  [...]
}
```

> 5. Run `yarn dev` in the terminal to start the development server. You should see that all components that use the `focus-ring` are now with a red shadow. Click the input to see the change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run `yarn dev` to start the development server. You should see that all components that use the `focus-ring` now have a red shadow when focused. Click on the input to see the change.
```

---
title: ' Mixins & Breakpoints'
---

import { Callout, Tab, Tabs } from 'nextra-theme-docs'
import { OverviewSection } from 'site/components/OverviewSection'
import { Input, InputField } from '@faststore/ui'

<header>

# Mixins & Breakpoints

</header>

## Breakpoints

FastStore simplifies screen breakpoint customization for projects by using [Include-Media](https://eduardoboucas.github.io/include-media/#features), a Sass library for writing CSS media queries in an easy and maintainable way, using a natural and simplistic syntax. Each project has the following five pre-defined screen breakpoints:

```scss
$breakpoints: (
  "phone":         320px,
  "phonemid":      375px,
  "tablet":        768px,
  "notebook":      1280px,
  "desktop":       1440px,
);
```

### Customizing Breakpoints

Follow the steps below to override the pre-defined sizing system for the screen breakpoints.

<Callout type="warning" emoji="⚠️">

>   Modifying these breakpoints implies changes to certain global tokens. See [Grid & Layout](/docs/global- tokens/grid-and-layout#breakpoints) for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Modifying these breakpoints implies changes to certain global tokens. See [Grid & Layout](/docs/global-tokens/grid-and-layout#breakpoints) for more details.
```
